# IBM Watson Construction and its Services :smiley:  fa18-523-82

| Pavan Kumar Madineni
| pmadinen@iu.edu
| Indiana University
| hid: fa18-523-82
| github: [:cloud:](https://github.com/cloudmesh-community/fa18-523-82/blob/master/paper/paper.md)

## Introduction

IBM Watson [@fa18-523-82-watson] is basically an artificial intelligence that is bringing rapid changes to the way the world works while simultaneously making businesses faster, smarter and more secure. This AI system is helping businesses utilize artificial intelligence to work at scale providing unparalleled business advantage. As the world continues to become more social, the data is ought to grow, and competitive advantage is to those who utilize the data better than their peers and can directly connect it to their business outcomes and other useful pursuits. Watson enables businesses to personalize customer experiences by streamlining processes, minimizing risks associated and kindling innovation. Watson is helping millions of engineers to seamlessly process huge volumes of data across different disciplines of a business thereby aiding to predict the decline in business, point of break down and proactively fixing them. Therefore, to play a competitive role in the field of business, there is an immense need for tools and processes, which help to collect all the required data generated across numerous platforms easily, to store, manage, manipulate, aggregate, analyze and integrate the data which help in making insightful business decisions. Watson has its services spread across varied disciplines from healthcare to automotive to telecom to education. It helps banks to deploy artificial models that act as virtual agents trained on thousands of customer inquiries helping them to provide expert service to large number of customers at one and a half times faster pace. Watson not only ensures faster pace of working but also transforms workflows.

---

Keywords: hid fa18-523-82, Artifical Intelligence, Machine Learning, Watson, Transfer Learning, Data Visualization

---

### Watson’s Methodology of Working

Watson ensures the work is accomplished in a smarter way by centralizing the data which enables the teams and business to connect to data whether the data is on the storage tapes within the organization or in the cloud or on any online file storage without any disruption and hassles [@fa18-523-82-buildwithwatson]. With each day passing, the businesses are relying more heavily on artificial intelligence. So, the businesses demand an intelligence system that does not compromise on transparency of operations to confirm if the recommendations given are trustworthy. Watson is committed to provide the expected transparency through not making any biased recommendations while simultaneously ensuring the variance in the recommendations is also within the permissible limits. Watson as an intelligence system follows three main thumb rules in order to increase the ease of doing business; they are reducing disruptions, enriching customer interactions and making confident recommendations. All these features make Watson the most sought-after intelligence system owing to the ability of Watson to deliver smarter and more productive work [@fa18-523-82-gettingstarted].

### Role of Artificial Intelligence in Building Watson

Artificial Intelligence is the process that gives a machine the power to learn adapt to new inputs after thoroughly analyzing the already known inputs along with their solutions to make better informed decisions. Machine learning is a branch of artificial intelligence that uses computer algorithms to analyze the trends in the data and make smart and intelligent decisions based what these algorithms observe in the data. This is how numerous machine learning models are built on numerous platforms across numerous disciplines [@fa18-523-82-aiopenscale]. A machine learning model is generally of the form of an input output device that takes in a few observed samples of inputs and provides an output after implementing pertinent computer algorithm on these inputs. A sample machine learning model can be to predict flu outbreaks based on the volume of tweets mentioning flu-related keywords, recognizing the patterns in human mobility by analyzing the mobile phone call records, or a future forecasting model that can be used to forecast the financial success of a movie by studying the page views statistics of the Wikipedia articles about a movie. All these models or predictive examples in common illustrate the concept of quantifying and measuring human activity at a collective level to understand and build better human societies through a computational framework. Watson broadly falls under one such computational framework that works on real data to make informed decisions and build smarter and more secure human societies [@fa18-523-82-watsonvideo]. 

### Role of Machine Learning in Building Watson

Among the existing machine learning techniques, deep learning is probably the most sophisticated machine learning technique. Watson utilizes deep learning framework to create an artificial neural network that can perpetually learn from various inputs determining whether decisions made are correct while constantly improving the quality and accuracy of results. This is what enables Watson to learn even from unstructured data that is available from the society such as photos, videos and audio files. Deep learning also enables Watson’s natural language understanding capabilities thus allowing it to learn by deconstructing sentences and then analyzing and identifying the concepts and underlying relations of those sentences. Once these relations are discovered, it can decipher the context and intent of what the original sentences would want to convey [@fa18-523-82-watsonml].  Any artificial intelligence in general also needs to understand the specific language and terminology in order to decipher the jargon pertinent to that particular domain and industry but this process is absolutely cumbersome using the traditional artificial intelligence models and also requires huge volume of data and computing power to run these algorithms unintermittingly for long durations. Watson however simplifies this process drastically by applying a technique called transfer learning. 

### Role of Transfer Learning in Building Watson

Transfer learning is a machine learning technique where a model trained on one task is re-trained and on another related task. This process ensures improvement of learning in a new task through the transfer of knowledge from a related task that has already been trained and learned. Transfer learning also reduces the overall training time by alleviating the need to train the algorithm from scratch which can be achieved by feeding Watson with knowledge from an already trained model. Watson’s transfer learning architecture comprises a three-layered artificial intelligence model. The bottom layer constitutes an out-of-the-box general knowledge like Wikipedia for artificial intelligence. This layer for provides the model the basic knowledge about the domain the model is trying to get trained and learn. The middle layer is prepackaged with knowledge exquisite to specific domains and industries. This layer takes care of jargon specific to domain thereby removing ambiguity associated with terms which have different meanings in different contexts. The top layer is where personalized learning takes place [@fa18-523-82-documentation]. The model will be fed with all the training data the model is intended to learn. The model is now potentially knowledgeable to understand a company’s specific risk and behavioral attributes. Transfer learning is thus an integral part of how Watson is able to accelerate business operations at a rapid pace thereby dramatically reducing the operating costs.


## IBM Watson and its Services
IBM Watson is one such intelligent data analysis and visualization service on the cloud that lets anybody pose different questions and provides answers to the questions posed in natural language [@fa18-523-82-watsonservices]. IBM Watson provides all the tools and services necessary to work with your data and build machine learning models at one place which makes analyzing data much simple be it a novice or an expert. IBM Watson offers numerous services namely Watson Analytics, Visual Recognition, Natural language Understanding, Speech to Text, Text to Speech, Tone Analyzer, Language Translator, Machine Learning etc [@fa18-523-82-gettingstarted].

### IBM Watson Analytics

IBM Watson Analytics is one such service that enables extracting intricate data flow processes as well as convoluted relationships between different fields of data. The analytics services offered by IBM Watson not only enables you to discover novel insights about an organization but also swiftly create and share highly informative and illustrative dashboards and infographics. The Watson Analytics is also capable of analyzing data directly from social platforms like Twitter and output the sentiment of the customer or learn the best time to tweet to enhance the span of the audience. It also enables multiple users to collaborate and share visualizations and dashboards with each other. 

#### Watson Analytics on Health Care

One of the few domains that extensively needs an artificial intelligence system about which everyone is concerned about is health care. The current approach to tackling different health problems today is flawed and grave concerns are exhibited over improvements in health care industry. Watson has partnered to build solutions that shall allow the larger health care community which involves both individual patients as well as larger health populations to be benefitted as the participants share and apply data-driven insights in real-time [@fa18-523-82-watsonhealth]. The medical data is growing exponentially each year with data flowing in from numerical sources such as medical and clinical research, various sensors, personal fitness trackers etc. The health industry is unable to keep up with this staggering growth of medical data. The IBM Watson health cloud brings together huge volumes of medical data into one centralized platform on the cloud. This data is then used to apply a fusion of traditional analytical techniques and Watson’s advanced machine learning techniques to churn out valuable insights out of it. This is possible because of ecosystem environment in which Watson Health Cloud operates i.e. it has multiple contributors to keep the system functioning smoothly. Watson Health Cloud uses huge volumes of data, knowledge pertaining to data and perspectives and opinions of researchers and domain experts as contributors to its ecosystem. Watson has customized this ecosystem even for personalized use which make the health cloud more dynamic and efficient. Watson is also well-known for the way it handles highly confidential data such as patient related information. It makes sure to remove all personal identifiers associated with the data that is being uploaded to the cloud. This process is called De-identification which is very crucial to create safe and secure cloud environment [@fa18-523-82-healthvideo]. Watson’s extraordinary machine learning abilities combined with its interactive ecosystem as well as its secure de-identification has made it one of a kind health care analysis tools which is transforming the health care industry substantially.

### IBM Watson Machine Learning

IBM Watson Machine Learning is another powerful service which is integrated to IBM Watson Studio that enables users to perform two fundamental operations of machine learning i.e. training and scoring. Training is the process of teaching an algorithm the underlying trends and behavior of data by feeding labelled data to the algorithm. A trained algorithm learns coefficients of mathematical expressions which represent the behavior of the data in the best possible way. Scoring is the process of predicting an output using the coefficients learned from the trained algorithm which is otherwise called as a predictive model. These predictions made by the algorithms after scoring enables data scientists to collaborate with data engineers to further explore the data and gain deeper insights out of it.

## Conclusion

To sum up, IBM Watson is an ideal tool if one wants to perform their own analysis but perplexed where to begin. IBM Watson is a smart data discovery tool that enables you to leverage all the state-of-the-art data analytics and visualization techniques to draw valuable insights out of data almost instantly. It automates the processes such as data preparation, predictive modeling, and data visualization which are otherwise very hectic and tedious processes [@fa18-523-82-watsoncomputer]. Watson is today considered the best artificial intelligence for most of the enterprises. It facilitates faster learning from smaller chunks of data. It is explicitly designed to make sure that data flows only from bottom to the top so that this structure aids in transfer learning process by sharing knowledge in the bottom two layers while still holding a firm control over the top layer.

